# Fatty-Acids-AA-scRNA
Single Cell RNA sequencing analysis to elucidate the role of arachidonic acid on intestinal epithelial stemness 

Single cell datasets for each experiment were independently assessed for data quality following the guidelines described by (Luecken and Theis 2019; Amezquita et al. 2020). Cells with more than 15% mitochondrial transcripts as well as cells that had fewer than 2,000 feature counts or expressed fewer than 1000 genes were removed. After QC, Seurat (v3.2.1, (Butler et al. 2018)) was used for normalization, graph-based clustering and differential expression analysis. Each dataset was normalized using SCTransform and the 3000 most variable genes were identified with SelectIntegrationFeatures. The organoid (Vehicle, AA and PGE2-treated) and tissue datasets (intestinal tissue from mice on control and Arasco diet) were integrated into one organoid and one tissue dataset, respectively, using PrepSCTIntegration, FindIntegrationAnchors, and IntegrateData (Stuart et al., 2019). RunPCA on the integrated datasets was used to identify the top 10 principle components (PCs), which were used for UMAP analysis and clustering. Louvain clustering at a resolution of 0.3 and 0.6 were used for the organoid and tissue datasets respectively. Clusters were labeled in accordance with expression levels of intestinal cell subtype signatures identified by (Haber et al., 2017); the stem 2 and stem 3 clusters were labeled using signatures identified by (Roulis et al., 2020) (see gene list descriptions above). 

To determine whether AA and PGE2 treatments acted in concordance, a differential expression analysis was conducted between each treatment and the control using the FindMarkers function with the MAST method (Finak et al., 2015). Monocle3 (v0.2.3, (Trapnell et al., 2014; Qiu et al., 2017; Cao et al., 2019; Traag et al., 2019;  Levine et al., 2015)) was utilized for the trajectory analysis for both organoid and in vivo datasets.
